---
layout: page
title: About
permalink: /about/
---

Hi there! I’m a developer by day and a hacker by night. I’m always behind a
computer screen. Most of my projects are related to penetration testing,
lock-picking, 3D printing, or software development. If you want to know more
about me or get in contact, feel free to find me on Twitter.

## History
I started coding while studying at Michigan State University. I was originally
a computer science student in the engineering college with a telecommunications
cognate (basically a minor). Due to my math GPA getting a little too low between
my sophomore and junior years; I had to change my major to media and
information. Which is a bachelor of science degree from the college of
communication arts and science. My degree focused on web development and is
more relevant to my career than the overarching “computer science” degree.
I practically switched my cognate and major around so that I graduated with a
media and information degree with a computer science minor (not a cognate).

## Experience
I have done a lot of website related work for class and work. While also being
experienced in C++, Java, Python, and a few other languages. I’ve played with
hosting websites and databases as well.

My first job was a student programmer at
[Matrix](http://http://www.matrix.msu.edu/). A company based on MSU's campus
that worked to preserve, and provide access to collections of cultural and
historical materials. It was my job to build and maintain some of the websites
used by the companies clients.

I then interned (and continued to work  after graduating) at
[Vertafore](https://www.vertafore.com/). This was my first experience with Java
web applications. Vertafore taught me a lot about vulnerability management.
I learned how to handle security issues and manage risk.

Currently I work in the Information Security industry where I help with
projects to train the world's latest penetration testers.

## Misec
[Misec](https://misec.us) is a "city sec" group in Michigan, with meet ups in
Southfield, Jackson, and Lansing. I've been involved since 2015. I strongly
recommend stopping in at a meeting or joining us on Slack or watching talks get
streamed online. I try to make it to every meeting and volunteer when possible.
Give me a shout if you make it out to a meeting.
